In the National Park System, there are 407 sites covering more than 84 million acres of land.
The Appalachian Trail is a 2,185 mile long public footpath that traverses the scenic, wooded, pastoral, wild, and culturally resonant lands of the Appalachian Mountains.
In 2014, more than 290 million people visited the National Parks.
The nation’s deepest cave is 1,593 ft deep in New Mexico at Carlsbad Caverns National Park.
Originally established by Congress as Hot Springs Reservation in 1832 and later becoming a national park in 1921, Hot Springs National Park represents the oldest protected area in the National Park System
In the National Park System there are: 124 historical parks or sites, 78 national monuments, 59 national parks, 25 battlefields or military parks, 18 preserves, 18 recreational areas, 10 seashores, 4 parkways, 4 lakeshores and 2 reserves.
Yosemite National Park supports more than 400 species of vertebrates including fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
There is 1 active volcano, thousands of petrified trees, and almost 300 waterfalls in Yellowstone National Park.
Seneca Falls National Park in New York is the location of the First Women’s Right Conventions, where expanding rights of women were discussed in the mid-19th century.
The largest living things in the world are in National Parks: Sequoia trees and Alaskan brown bears (the world’s largest living carnivores).
There are 27,000 historic and prehistoric structures preserved within the National Parks System.
As you may know, the National Park Service sets aside land for all of us to enjoy in its natural state. How much, you ask? 51 million acres! About the size of Kansas.
The world’s first national park, Yellowstone, was created in 1872 by President Ulysses S. Grant. Its caretakers – the cavalry.
Wind Cave National Park is the first cave to be named a national park in the world. In addition to its length (currently sixth longest in the world), Wind Cave is known for its calcite formations known as “boxwork.” About 95% of the world’s boxwork is found in Wind Cave.
The smallest national park is Hot Springs National Park in Arkansas coming in at about 5,500 acres. The biggest? Wrangell – St. Elias National Park in Alaska has an area of over 8.3 million acres and is larger than each of the nine smallest states.
Sometimes national parks and national monuments are confused. National parks are chosen for their natural beauty, unique geological features, and unusual ecosystems. National monuments are chosen for their historical or archeological significance.
Only one state in the country is not lucky enough to currently have either a national park or national monument. It is actually the country’s first state, Delaware. Poor Delaware.
Death Valley National Park, which has the lowest elevation in the U.S. at 282 feet below sea level, is only 76 miles from Mount Whitney, the highest point in the contiguous U.S. at 14,505 feet.
The Grand Canyon is both a record of history and source of mystery. The Colorado River running through the canyon cuts through metamorphic rock called schist, which is about 1.75 billion years old. However the beginnings of the canyon are much debated by scientists. Did the Colorado River carve the whole canyon or was there already an ancient gorge waiting for the new river over 5 million years ago?
Crater Lake, the U.S.’ deepest lake and seventh deepest in the world, took 250 years of rain and snow accumulation to reach its current water level.
The Yellowstone Caldera, in Yellowstone National Park, is a super volcano that is responsible for three of the world’s six biggest volcano eruptions. It is on pace to blow about 100,000 years from now. So come see it while you still can!
Sequoia National Park, California is home to the largest living single-stem tree in the world - the wonderfully named General Sherman. The tree is approximately 275ft (84m) tall and weighs approximately 1,900 metric tonnes.
The highest point in North America is Mount McKinley (aka Denali) standing at 20,320ft (6193.5m). It is in Denali National Park and Preserve, Alaska.
The parks are also home to the lowest point in the western hemisphere - Badwater Basin in Death Valley, California, which is 282 ft (86m) below sea level.
The longest cave system in the world is at Mammoth Cave National Park, Kentucky. Currently, there is more than 3454 miles of cave mapped, with more to come. The largest “room” in the portion of the cave system that has been discovered is two acres in size.
Two national parks are located north of the Arctic Circle: the Gates of the Arctic National Park and the Kobuk Valley National Park, both in Alaska.
The largest park is Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve, Alaska. According to the NPS, the park spans 13.2 million acres, an area bigger than Switzerland. It also covers three climate zones.
The smallest property owned by the National Parks Service is the Thaddeus Kosciuszko National Memorial, the house in Philadelphia where Kosciuszko, a Polish freedom fighter, lived for a time. It measures 0.02 acres.
White Sands National Monument spans more than 176,000 acres of New Mexico desert and contains the largest gypsum dune fields in the world.
The oldest national park is Yellowstone, Wyoming which was founded in 1872. The most recent addition to the 59 national parks list is Pinnacles, California, which was added in 2013.
The “Old Faithful” geyser at Yellowstone is so-called because visitors can rely on it to erupt regularly, although it doesn’t erupt at predictable regular intervals such as every hour on the hour. Eruptions last from one and a half minutes to five minutes. Its maximum eruption height ranges from 90 to 184 ft.
Of all the 401 National Park sites, Abraham Lincoln and Teddy Roosevelt have the most sites named after them – four each.
The deepest lake in the United States is in Oregon - Crater Lake in the National Park of the same name. It is 1,932 ft (589m) deep, around five times the height of the Statue of Liberty.
The National Park of American Samoa is the only National Park Service site south of the equator. It covers 13,500 total acres - 9,500 land acres and 4,000 marine acres— which are mostly coral reefs.
There are almost 300 waterfalls in Yellowstone National Park. The highest plunge waterfall, confusingly named the Lower Falls of Yellowstone Falls, has a height of 308ft (94m).
The Florida Everglades is the only true tropical forest in the northern hemisphere. Because of this it is home to plants and animals you can’t find anywhere else, including the Florida Panther and twenty species of orchid.
Russell Cave National Monument, Alabama, has an almost continuous record of human habitation going back to at least 7000 BC.
There are 27,000 historic and prehistoric structures preserved within the National Parks System, including Aztec Ruins in New Mexico.
California and Alaska are the states with the most national parks – both have eight each.
The Grand Canyon is not the world’s deepest or longest canyon. That title is taken by Yarlung Tsangpo Grand Canyon in the Himalayas.
The National Parks System (including monuments and historic sites) drew 273.6 million visitors in 2013 with the most visited site being the Golden Gate recreation area, San Francisco . In the National Parks category, the top five most visited parks were (in ascending order): Olympic, Yellowstone, Yosemite, Grand Canyon and Great Smoky Mountains, which drew a staggering 9,354,695 visitors.